cloud computing provides the services

IAAS (Infrastructure as a service)
SAAS (Software as a service)
PAAS (Platform as a service)

IAAS: The complete infrascture wil provide by third party vendor.
the servers, they will scale out and reduce the servers based on the requirement

SAAS : it will provide you the capablility of deploye your applications or softwares over the cloud
and the end user can able to use this applications

PAAS: Developers required different tools, different hardwared and different languages. this PAAS will provide you
different infrastructure, tools and languages to develop your own applications


Deployment methods in cloud

Public
private
hybrid

Public: everything that will be deployed as a service that will be deployed by third party vendor provider



Docker:

Docker is used to create containers

When we are using vertualisation. each server will have hardware resources an physical os. we will create seperate vm's to work
with this application.
One vm is used for one application. in that cased, there is so much of space and memories waste

Docker creates the container, which is having the binary and library files and remaining files are sharing from host OS.
there is no separate OS for each container.

Kubernetes:

Suppose if we have more number of container in our OS. it is difficult to monitor each container whether it is working
file or not or which container using more resources like that

In that case kubernetes was introduced. it is orchestation container tool. its job is to monitor, scale and restart the
containers


kubernetes works like

we have kubernetes master and kubernetes nodes

K master is used to schedule the containers with in the nodes. k master take resposibility of monitor, scale up and down the
containers

where as K nodes will process the requests in container and API's etc..


Kubernetes commands

To check all the nodes present in cluster

Kubetcl get nodes

To check all prods present in the cluster

Kubectl get pods --all-namespace

To check all prods present in the cluster along with location

Kubectl get pod -all-namespace -o wide

The IP address only valid inside cluster


To create deployment 

Kubectl create deployment ngninx1 --image=nginx:1.7.9

To create deployement through file

Kubectl create -f deployment deploy.yaml

To create services 

kubectl  create service nodeport nginx --tcp 80:80 (nginx will run on 80 port)

Refer youtube

Intellipaat


Azure devops housemm dellai



Azure functions:

Azure function is a solution to execute a piece of code in the cloud. you can write just a code for the problem no need to 
worry about whole application or infrastructure to run it.This is also called serverless compute solution. This support varies languages C#, F#, Java, Javascript
we can pay when the time the code runs. 


HTTP Trigger : Trigger the execution of code by using http request


Azure storage:

Azure storage is microsoft managed service providing cloud storage. it is highly available, secure, scalable and redundent

Azure storage divided into 4 types

Blob storage (Binary large object):

It is used to store unstructured data. i.e audio file, vedio files, binary data, text files, images


Queue storage:

Azure queue is cloud based storage, that enables the communication between distributed applications. Each queue maintain the
list of messages that is added by sender component and processed by receiver component

with this queue, your application is immediately scalable based on the demand


